Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
So we're going to be talking about how we bring everything together.
So we talked about how to create different types of components.
We talked about like creating recipes for our design system.
Let's take a look at what that looks like right now.
So over here we have our major like foundational base styles.
We have our colors, we have things like typography, iconography.
If we go into our components, we have stuff like avatars, checkboxes, different various inputs.
And you may be asking me, Well, Daniel, how do I bring this all together?
Like, how do I use these things?
So at this point, you've probably have started to created some more high fidelity designs.
You've settled on more of a specific style.
So as you can tell, like things have come together a bit more and there's much more like style definition
in the different types of components that we've created.
So you can tell that we definitely have a direction to go in.
Now, as I said before, design systems are always changing.
We are constantly iterating on them, but they give us a great way to have like a bunch of components
in one place that you can update and have it update through the rest of your application.
So this is my current iteration of the design system for habitual and what I've created.
Here are a bunch of recipes like I've showed you, and now I want to show you what it looks like when
we actually start bringing it together.
I have a bunch of different pages laid out.
I have our onboarding pages, registration, and as you can tell, they all have that very similar style
and there's a lot of visual cohesiveness.
So let me show you how I went about and actually did that.
So let's go to the wish list.
I think that would be a great place to start.
So you can tell like a lot of things have changed since the last time.
How did I create this actual page?
So as you can tell over here, I've created a frame called the header.
Let's just bring that up so we can see.
So I have everything that scrolls.
I have our footer, which is our nav.
And what I've done here is I've actually gone to my assets tab here and I'm looking through here and
I see my main navigation component and I want the wish list component, so I will just drag that into
my frame.
Like I've done here.
And then I set my component there.
And then if I change that on my design system, then it will automatically update in this mockup over
here.
So I have one for wish list.
I have one for our cart or a shopping bag.
I have four orders.
And you see, we have different variations.
Now, if we take a look at what we have over here, this is our swipe container.
And you may actually remember this from when we created a recipe for product cards.
So we had large product containers.
And what I've done is I've actually just kind of taken this recipe that we've put together.
And I've just copied it over there.
Now, do I think we're going to use this forever?
Probably not, actually.
I can guarantee that things are going to change.
Different types of details will change within these product cards.
But this is our iteration right now, and this is what we think the user wants right now.
So if I go back, I have a recipe over here and I will continue to use this anywhere.
I see a large container that needs to be used.
And that's what I mean about having so much reusability within your design system.
You may also find that there's some components that you may have forgotten or some certain styles that
you may have forgotten.
It's very hard to build an application from the ground up so quickly without taking into account all
the different use cases.
Now more specifically, I'm talking about like the heading over here.
The last time I thought I was going to use a more traditional, just like a capitalized text.
I've done an all caps header for the different types of content that follows below.
And then I've done a gray link or a underlined link that's all capitalized right beside the on the right
side.
Now, I didn't think about this before, but as I started to build out the fidelity of our application,
I found out that I need a little bit more variation with my typographic styles.
So I'm going to either create a new style or I'm going to just kind of create a variation.
So I have like the link here, which is this style, the interactions link style, and I've just kind
of capitalized it on my own and I may go back into our typography section and actually create a capitalized
version there.
So that way it's just easily accessible since we're using it so much.
You may also find that, wow, I use these two typographic elements together and I use them a lot.
So I may actually I may actually take them out here.
I'm going to actually create a frame around them.
And we'll call it content header.
And this content header will be like another recipe that we use.
You'll notice that whenever I move this frame then die gets moved as well.
This can have that on both sides.
So we'll see what that looks like when we start to shrink it down.
So now we have our own recipe for that section and we can just kind of copy and paste that from our
design system whenever we need it.
So remember, your design system is kind of like that source of truth and you know you're never going
to get it right in the first try and you're going to continually iterate on it as you see your application
grow and as new demands need to be met.
Like if you new learnings that you found out through user testing or just general analytics, you'll
find out that maybe we should have like a big button on the bottom of these cards that says Add to Cart
and I'll show you that and how we can iterate later on.
So this is what I've done for the Wish List page right now.
I've also created like different variations.
I'm thinking through these different use cases more in depth right now, like I've done the user flows
for them.
And I thought, okay, when you come to the Wishlist page, there's a couple of different scenarios
here.
We have like a logged out version where, you know, you haven't logged in yet.
So we have that CTA at the top pushes them to like a sign up or a login screen.
I also have like a card here that says you have no saved products.
You know, you can start saving to add to Wishlist or create one now, so I don't have a login.
This is probably going to prompt me to create one.
So I have that.
I've also incorporated different elements like illustrations.
So let's take a look at that really quickly.
So what I've done here is I've started to use these illustrations through a plug in and I'll show you
what that plug in is called.
It's actually just called illustrations.
So let's launch that.
It's running right now.
So pretty funky plug in over here.
And what I've done is I've just taken like one like this.
Let's just throw that in there.
Let's close that plug in.
So I've taken this illustration that we've gotten from that plug in.
I'm going to shift option.
Hold that so I can scale it appropriately.
And what I've done is I've just used our brand colors, so I'll use like the primary to replace that
and to replace the block, I'll use like just a lighter gray and just like a little use of an illustration
like that makes this card much more better.
Like, if we remove that, it doesn't necessarily have the, the same effect that it did prior.
So let's just move that up.
So as you can tell, it's really plain that illustration adds a little bit more of a dynamic touch to
it.
It makes it a little more exciting.
It gives your application a little bit more personality.
So that is what I've done here.
And like I said before, I've noticed that I've started to use cards like this to prompt users to do
certain things with like a primary CTA button.
I have like secondary copy and I also have the primary copy over here.
And then in illustration I'll create card and I may actually create a component out of this now because
I found that I'm using a bunch of different illustrations.
I'm using this a bunch of different scenarios that it may be reusable.
So that's another example of how you find more reusability as you start to design.
I've also created like a title over here with a background, so this is our header.
So all that has in there right now is the background color.
It has the wish list copy, and the avatar can actually come in here as well.
Okay.
You can throw that in there and then you can just say log in CTA.
And right now we have a nice header component as well.
So that is another way to start to build out your design system a bit more because we do have some top
navigation options.
Now let's take a look at some other options we have on wish list.
So over here, when you actually have an active list and you've logged in, you have your avatar, you
see how things have changed a bit.
You have like your wish list at the top.
So right now I have like a personal wish list.
I'm using this component in here as well, which is like your invite.
I'm using horizontal component that possibly opens up like a list where you can share this, you can
invite more people possibly or actually just delete the list and it'll probably open up an overlay within
whatever operating system you're using, whether that's iOS or Android.
As you can tell, I'm using our small wish list components that we've created these horizontal card
views.
I've created another list over here and I have another CTA, which I'm using the secondary button.
Now, as you can tell, like this seems like a pretty standard thing that we're going to probably be
using a lot of.
And this makes sense to probably create either a component out of something like this or just a recipe
so that we can reuse that.
And again, I'm repeating this same kind of thing over here, like a suggested for U.S. possibly showing
them results that are based off of their recommendations and based off of their wants within their wish
list.
So I have like some Bose headphones over here.
You know, they coincided with maybe the music that this person is listening to or, you know, just
general technology.
So that's just another option we have in Wishlist.
And the last option I have here is what happens if the user comes here and they don't have a wishlist
but they are logged in.
So now what they'll need to do is all we need to do is create a wishlist, they'll select this CTA over
here and it will prompt them to kind of name a wish list, invite some people, and then they can go
ahead and start saving to it.
So that is what we have here thus far for wish list.
There are so many other scenarios like what happens if we don't have a wish list?
What happens if we do have a wish list?
But what happens when we first click this?
Where will it go?
Will it prompt me within a modal to say I want to save to this specific wish list or that specific wish
list?
So as you can tell, as you start building out the application, you'll realize that, wow, there's
so many different use cases that I haven't necessarily thought about, and that's totally fine because
that's just the nature of the job and that's just the nature of actually designing from low fidelity
to high fidelity.
So this is how we've built out wish lists thus far, using some of the components that we've created,
using the recipes that we've created, and actually finding some new components and new recipes along
the way.